doc: devicetree: edits to driving gpio guide (#18528)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/config_and_build/hardware/use_gpio_pin_directly.rst

   :local:
   :depth: 2

This user guide shows how to define, configure, and implement a GPIO pin directly using a binding for Nordic Semiconductor devices.
In the development phase of an embedded project, you can use this configuration to set the pin state using software, without any intermediary circuitry or additional hardware components.

> You can use this solution to collect execution timings, or as a debugging tool.

Author: @nvlsianpu , what do you think about the approach proposed by Marek to mention passing GPIO port + pin directly to the GPIO APIs? Should I add a note?

> You can use this solution to collect execution timings, or as a debugging tool.

Reviewer: @MarekPieta mentioned another option which might be useful as well. User still must make sure that GPIOx driver is enabled, but can use that option as well.
Yes, that could be added (@MarekPieta or LL team can provide input).

The following configuration can be copied manually into the devicetree overlay files.
You can also use the `Devicetree Visual Editor <How to work with Devicetree Visual Editor_>`_ (either in GUI or text mode) in the |nRFVSC| to apply it.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Define the DTS binding
**********************

> You need to define the new GPIO pin node for the pin to be recognized by DTS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to define the new GPIO pin node for DTS to recognize the pin.
```

Author: Rephrased the whole section.

   :local:
   :depth: 2

This user guide shows how to control a GPIO pin directly using GPIO driver APIs.
In the development phase of an embedded project, you can use this configuration to set the pin state using software, without any intermediary circuitry or additional hardware components.
You can use this solution to collect execution timings, or as a debugging tool.

> The following configuration can be copied manually into the devicetree overlay files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can copy the following configuration manually into the devicetree overlay files.
```
What is exactly the following configuration? I do not see one right below.

Author: I assume the configuration snippets. This remained from the v1 of the page that did not have the numbered sections.

You can also use the `Devicetree Visual Editor <How to work with Devicetree Visual Editor_>`_ (either in GUI or text mode) in the |nRFVSC| to apply them.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

> Define the compatible DTS node

Reviewer 4: We could even completely skip this section actually

> Define the compatible DTS node

Author: Let's tackle this in the follow-up.

******************************

You need to define a new GPIO pin devicetree node for the pin.
The devicetree node needs to be compatible with the GPIO devicetree binding.
GPIO APIs use the devicetree node to refer to the specified GPIO pin.

If you work with a Nordic Semiconductor device, you can use the binding definition in :file:`dts/bindings/gpio`.

See Zephyr's documentation about :ref:`zephyr:devicetree` and :ref:`zephyr:gpio_api` for more information.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Configure the GPIO pin through DTS
**********************************

To declare a GPIO pin node, create a DTS node in the DTS of your board or application's DTS overlay.

> Pins defined this way can be accessed using :ref:`GPIO devicetree APIs<zephyr:gpio_api>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pins defined this way can be accessed using the :ref:`GPIO devicetree APIs<zephyr:gpio_api>`.
```

		status = "okay";
	};

In this snippet:

* The node is labelled as ``user-dbg-pin``.

> * ``compatible`` specifies the binding definition to be used (``nordic,gpio-pins`` from :file:`dts/bindings/gpio`).

Reviewer 3: labelled -> labeled (https://www.grammarly.com/blog/commonly-confused-words/labeled-labelled/)

* ``gpios`` specifies which pin node is being used (**Pin 2** of **GPIO0**).
* ``status`` enables the pin node when it is set to ``"okay"``.

> * Additionally, the ``gpio0`` instance and ``gpiote0`` are enabled, so the GPIO driver can be built and executed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Additionally, the ``gpio0`` and ``gpiote0`` instances are enabled, so the GPIO driver can be built and executed.
```
Not so sure about this.

       static const struct gpio_dt_spec pin_dbg =
          GPIO_DT_SPEC_GET_OR(DT_NODELABEL(user_dbg_pin), gpios, {0});

> #. Make sure your application calls the pin using the :c:func:`gpio_pin_configure_dt` function:

Reviewer: call -> initialize or pre-configure

> #. Make sure your application calls the pin using the :c:func:`gpio_pin_configure_dt()` function:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#. Make sure your application calls the pin using the :c:func:`gpio_pin_configure_dt` function:
```

   .. code-block:: c

       if (pin_dbg.port) {
          gpio_pin_configure_dt(&pin_dbg, GPIO_OUTPUT_INACTIVE);
    }

> #. Add the following code where needed to let your application drive the pin using the :c:func:`gpio_pin_set_dt()` function:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#. Add the following code where needed to let your application drive the pin using the :c:func:`gpio_pin_set_dt` function:
```

		};
	};

> To initialize the defined GPIO pin structures, use the ``GPIO_DT_SPEC_INST_GET_BY_IDX_OR()`` macro:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To initialize the defined GPIO pin structures, use the :c:macro:`GPIO_DT_SPEC_INST_GET_BY_IDX_OR` macro:
```
